---
title: Day1
date: 2020-01-21
toc: true
tags: 
    - English
    - rosetta
---



### The simple present and the present continuous

- The simple present is used to talk about facts more or less permanent and regular actions or events.

- The present continuous is used to describe an action actually taking place at the moment when one is speaking.



***Example: Simple present***

She **works** <u>*every day*</u> from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Present continuous

**I'm working** on the computer <u>*right now.*</u> 

<!--more-->

### 'Would like': expressing wishes 

- The conditional 'would like' may express a wish or desire.

  

'**Would like**' is contracted '-'d like.' 

'**Would like**' precedes an infinitive or a noun or noun phrase.



***Example: I'd like to go to the movies.***

I would like more details.



- Used as an interrogative, 'would like' is a more polite synonym of '(do) want.'



***Example: What kind of gas would you like?***



Would you like to have a drink? Would you like to see the

backyard? 



### The use and omission of the

The article **the** is used before **plural nouns** or **uncountable nouns** when the **noun is determined**, its meaning is defined by the context.



***Example***:

The cities in Europe are all very different. 

The coffee you gave me is really good. 



###### The is not used:

- in generalizations with plural nouns or uncountable nouns.



Example:

I don't like towns. (plural noun)

I prefer tea to coffee. (uncountable)



######  The is not used:

- before a plural or an uncountable noun with the meaning 'a certain amount of.' 



Example:

I have to buy butter and jelly. (uncountable) There are cities I don't like. (plural noun) 



###### The is not used:

- before names of meals when they have a general sense.



Example:

The breakfast I had yesterday was very good. (particular sense)

Breakfast is ready. (general sense)  when the **noun is determined**, its meaning is defined by the **context**.



***Example***:

The cities in Europe are all very different. 

The coffee you gave me is really good. 



The is not used:

- in generalizations with plural nouns or uncountable nouns.

Example:

I don't like towns. (plural noun) I prefer tea to coffee. (uncountable) The is not used:

路before a plural or an uncountable noun with the meaning 'a certain amount of.' Example:

I have to buy butter and jelly. (uncountable) There are cities I don't like. (plural noun) The is not used:

路before names of meals when they have a general sense.

Example:

The breakfast I had yesterday was very good. (particular sense)

Breakfast is ready. (general sense) 



### 'Little' - 'A little' - 'Much' 

The indefinite adjectives (or pronouns) **little**, **a little** and **much** express a notion of quantity and are used before an uncountable singular noun.

- **little** is used to stress a very small quantity.
- **a little** is used when describing a small quantity, but contrary to little, it is only a simple statement.
- **much** is used when describing a large quantity.

***Example:***
There is very little juice left.
There is a little juice in the fridge, if you want.
We have much work to do today. There isn't much coffee left. 

**Note.**
Often, in the affirmative form, much is replaced by a lot of or plenty of.

**Example**: There's a lot of tea in China.

When the noun is understood, the indefinite adjectives become indefinite pronouns. 

**Example**: There is little (juice) left. 



### 'Too' - 'Too much' 



- 'Too' precedes adjectives and adverbs. 
- 'Too much' precedes uncountable (singular) nouns;
-  'too many' precedes plural countable nouns.



**Example**: 

My tea's too strong.

He runs too fast.

Too much sun is bad for you.

She has too many friends. 



Note. 

When 'too much' modifies a verb, it follows the verb.

Example: He drank too much. 





### 'Some' - 'Any' 

- The article 'some' precedes a countable plural or uncountable noun or noun
  phrase and indicates an undetermined quantity. 



Example: 

Could you give me some informationon your villas?
Some children were playing outside.



路The pronoun 'some' replaces a countable plural or uncountable noun or noun phrase. 



Example:

 If you like milk, I have some.
Where are the sponges? We have to buy some.



- The article or the pronoun 'any' replaces the article or the pronoun 'some' in an interrogative or negative clause.

Example: Do you have any children?
No,we don't have any.
Any may also be used to express total permission, possibility, or restriction.



- Permission and Restriction



Example: Feel free to ask questions at any time during the presentation.

Employees may not leave the premises under any circumstances.
You cannot open these files at any time.
路Possibility or Indifference



Example: Any of these designs would work well.



You can choose any topic you think is pertinent for your presentation. We could meet any place that's convenient to discuss the project. 







